In this lecture, we'll be creating our first acting class for the project.
I know in the past that you've seen how to create active components.
So we're not going to see how we can create actors specifically for use within the world to begin.
You just need to follow the usual process of creating a new C++ class will select the type of actor.
Name this one projectile base.
And place this in a folder named Actors with that done select create class and wait for the new class
to compile.
And thankfully, this isn't a child of another class.
In the folder structure.
So we should be able to just compile and use this class immediately when this new class is ready.
We can start by taking the usual steps to tidy the class a little bit here.
So to begin, I just know that we won't be using the tick function.
So we can delete that.
Now, as one is the second public section with an out in a private section for our components and variables.
And this class will be implementing a super useful component named the projectile movement component.
So this will take control of things like driving the movement for us.
When the class is spawned into the world, it has a huge range of other pre-built C++ functionality,
such as bouncing collisions and loads of other fancy things that we can look at.
When we've exposed this in our blueprint properties to use this class, they will first need to forward
declare this.
So this will be a class you project.
Move on components.
And of course, replacing this just above the U.
Class section.
And then for the components, we've done this a couple of times already.
So I won't spend too much time explaining what's happening here as we'll be doing the same thing as
before.
And we'll probably be barring the new property specified, too.
So we're going to want a pointer to our U.
Projectile movement component.
And or name this one projectile movement.
The Muluzi need a new static mesh component pointer named Projectile MASH to act as our visual representation
of our projectile.
This class will also need a concept of dealing damage.
And again, like many other things, Unreal kind of has a class structure already completely set up
to handle this.
And that is the damage type of class.
So to assign this, we're going to implement a template class using the T subclass of then some angled
brackets for the class.
Defining the U.
Damage type.
And just naming this damage type.
So let's take a look at this new tea subclass of thing that we've just created.
So this is basically just a way to store a type as a value.
And specifically from you objects in a variable instead of a value.
We specify the base type it can hold.
And in this case, that's where you damage type.
So this is just a type safe way to provide access to specific class pointers in the editor.
And in our case, this will provide anything that is a subclass of the you damage type and to finish
off the variable declarations.
We'll also need two other things, which is to control how fast the projectile moves and also the amount
of damage the projectile will do.
So we'll create a float named Movement Speed and I'll prefill this with a value of thirteen hundred
and then another float named Damage and I'll prefill this with a value of 50.
Next, we'll go through and add our U.
Properties.
So for our components, I'm going to head over to the base class and grab the U.
Properties from here.
And then just pace that back into our projectile base.
So these are pretty much exactly as we want them, including the category name.
We will need to make some changes to our damage type specify.
First, I'll make this edit defaults only and remove the blueprints specify entirely.
We won't be using that, which means we can also get rid of the private access specify.
And I'll just change the category name to damage for the two flight variables.
The specifiers, again, will need to change a little bit here, so I'll change the specifiers to edit
anywhere on both of them and I'll change the first one the for the move speed to a category named move
or movement or change the damage values category to damage.
Then over in the coat farm, we're just going to follow our usual process for creating the components
so we can remove the tick function and set the can ever tick equal to folks.
Then we also need to include our components forward slash static mesh component dot h.
And also the game framework, forward slash projectile movement component deitsch.
If we start by implementing a projectile MASH components, so this would be projectile mash equals to
create default sub objects.
Of type, you static mesh component.
And for the tax, so just that this to be projectile mash.
We'll set this to be the root components.
So, again, every component equals to projectile match.
And then next for the projectile movement component.
This will be, again, equal to the create default sub object.
This time, all of it you projectile movement component.
And the text will be projectile movement.
Now, this one's slightly different because these don't belong in the seen hierarchy or inherit any
transform.
We don't need to attach it to anything.
So we don't need to use these set up attachment that we've seen before.
We can, however, set the initial speed and the maximum speed to be the movement speed variable that
we've already created.
And we just do that by using our projectile movement.
Initial speed and max speed.
If you did when a projectile that gained velocity over time or reduced in velocity over time, then
you could change these variables to be something different, of course.
I'm also going to set the class to have an initial lifespan of three seconds.
And this would just stop us from having a bunch of projectiles laying around forever.
When we start spawning them.
So after three seconds, this just means it will destroy itself.
It could destroy function and remove itself from the world.
And finally, we just want to move over to the engine and compile this so that we can see our progress.
When that's finished compiling, let's just quickly create a blueprint class and we'll drop this in
to a U folder in the blueprint section called Actors.
Name the new class, BP underscore projectile bass.
And then inside of the blueprint, we can begin to take a look and confirm that everything is exposed
and set up as we'd like.
So I can really see in the details panel that the damage and the movement speed are as expected and
taking the the predefined values that we've given those.
And then the damage type is currently empty.
So let's take a look at that damage type again.
And this is nice and simple here.
So we can make a damage type from either the environmental damage or just the standard damage type.
So we can't go wrong here.
This is why we're using the T subclass of as it limits the class types available, making it, again,
the type safe declaration here, as we know that we only want certain classes which are relevant to
causing damage.
And I'll just use that the default damage type provider.
Finally, we can also make the amendments to our components.
So let's start by filling in these static mesh with s.m underscore projecto.
We'll come back to this a little bit later when the setting things up.
But just to check a few things in the projectile movement component.
So we have gravity enabled, which is going to be useful.
And that's done by setting this to a value of one and everything else.
We can leave out the defaults by now.
Has this all looks fine and we'll come back and improve a few things a little bit later when we can
actually see the firing and action so that we can see what doesn't work to begin and how to improve
that using this component.
For now, though, we have the basics of our projecto class implemented so we can compile and save this.
Ready for use a little bit later.